On a deserted highway, a heist crew driving three modified black 5th-generation Honda Civic coupes assault
a truck carrying electronic goods, steal its
cargo, and escape into the night.
The following day, a joint Los Angeles Police
Department and FBI task force sends LAPD officer
Brian O'Conner undercover to locate the crew.
He begins his investigation at Toretto's Market,
ordering his regular tuna on white, no crust,
and flirting with its owner Mia, sister of
the infamous street racer Dominic Toretto,
while Dominic sits in the back office reading
a newspaper.
Dominic's crew, Vince, in a 1999 Nissan Maxima;
Leon, in a 1995 Nissan Skyline GT-R R33; Jesse,
in a 1995 Volkswagen Jetta GLS; and his girlfriend
Letty, arrives.
Vince, who has a crush on Mia, starts a fight
with Brian until Dominic intervenes.
That night, Brian brings a modified 1995 Mitsubishi
Eclipse to an illegal street race, hoping
to find a lead on the heist crew.
Dominic arrives in his 1993 Mazda RX-7 and
initiates a drag race between himself, Brian
and two other drivers.
Lacking money, Brian is forced to wager his
car.
Dominic wins the race after Brian's car malfunctions,
but the LAPD arrive before he can hand over
his vehicle.
Brian, in his car, helps Dominic escape, but
they accidentally venture into the territory
of Dominic's old racing rival, gang leader
Johnny Tran and his cousin Lance, who destroy
Brian's vehicle.
Later, Dominic reiterates that Brian still
owes him a "10-second car".
The two then walk back to Dominic's house
together, where an altercation between Vince,
who is upset that Brian is at the house, and
Dominic breaks out.
Brian brings a damaged 1994 Toyota Supra to
Dominic's garage as a replacement.
Dominic and his crew begin the long process
of restoring the vehicle, and Brian starts
dating Mia.
He also begins investigating Tran, convinced
that he is the mastermind behind the truck
hijackings.
While investigating one of the garages at
night, having driven a 1999 Ford F150 SVT
Lightning Brian is discovered by Dominic and
Vince who demand an explanation.
Brian convinces them that he is researching
his opponents vehicles' for the upcoming desert
Race Wars.
Together, the trio investigate Tran's garage,
discovering a large quantity of electronic
goods.
Brian reports the discovery to his superiors
and Tran and Lance are arrested while the
Toyota Supra is restored and built.
The raid fails, however, when the electronics
are proved to have been purchased legally.
Brian is forced to confront his suspicion
that Dominic is the true mastermind.
Brian is given 36 hours to find the heist
crew, as the truckers are now arming themselves
to defend against the hijackings.
The following day, Dominic and Brian attend
Race Wars after test driving the newly built
Supra, off U.S. Route 101.
At Race Wars, Jesse wagers his father's MK3
Volkswagen Jetta GLS against Tran in his Honda
S2000, but flees with the car after he loses.
Tran demands Dominic recover the vehicle,
and accuses him of reporting him to the police.
Enraged, Dominic beats up Tran.
Later that night, Brian witnesses Dominic
and his crew leaving and realizes that they
are the hijackers.
He reveals his true identity to Mia and convinces
her to help him find the crew.
Dominic, Letty, Vince, and Leon attack a semi-trailer
truck, intending it to be their final heist.
The armed driver shoots Vince and runs Letty
off the road.
Brian arrives with Mia and rescues Vince.
He is forced to reveal his identity to call
in emergency medical care to save Vince.
Dominic, Mia and the rest of the crew leave
before the authorities can arrive.
Some time later, Brian arrives at Dominic's
house to apprehend him as he is getting his
father's 1970 Dodge Charger R/T out of the
garage.
He demands Brian leave, since he is not running,
but is going to rescue Jesse who has no one
else to look after him.
Instead, Jesse arrives at his house and pleads
for protection.
Tran and Lance ride by on motorbikes and shoot
Jesse dead for reneging on their bet, hitting
the Volkswagen in the process.
Brian and Dominic give chase in their separate
vehicles, finding and killing Tran and injuring
Lance.
Brian then pursues Dominic, with them both
eventually acquiescing to a quarter-mile drag
race.
The pair barely cross a railroad before an
oncoming freight train passes, which ends
the race in a draw, but Dominic crashes his
car into a truck, injuring him.
Instead of arresting him, Brian gives the
keys to his own car to Dominic, asserting
that he still owes him a 10-second car from
their first race.
Dominic escapes in the Supra as Brian walks
away.
In a post-credits scene, Dominic is seen driving
through Baja California, Mexico, in a 1970
Chevrolet Chevelle SS.